---
title: 2020-10-10 Changelog
date: 2020-10-10
author: crlundy
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
# Expansions in the practice tier

Per the Returning Form poll, an expansion restriction will be used in the practice tier.

Old (Section II Match Structure and Policies):
> Except for cardlists, Kingdoms should be generated randomly with all cards either player owns, from zero to two landscapes, and no specific cards or landscapes required. No particular cards, landscapes, or expansions should be selected.

New:
> Kingdoms should be generated randomly with all cards either player owns, from zero to two landscapes, and no specific cards or landscapes required. No particular cards, landscapes, or expansions should be selected. For Seasons 42 and 43, in the Practice Tier, the players pick one expansion each, and Kingdoms are generated with only cards from those expansions and the base set.

# Demotions in flex divisions

Clarified that 5th place never demotes in a 7-player division.

Old (Section III, Standings):
> Players who finish in fifth or sixth place in any tier demote unless they are in the bottom tier, in which case they will stay in that tier.

New:
> In any tier, players who finish in sixth or seventh place in a seven-player division, or fifth or sixth place in any other division, demote unless they are in the bottom tier, in which case they will stay in that tier.

# English proficiency

Clarified that basic English proficiency is required.

New (Section V, Scheduling):
> To communicate with league moderators and your opponents, basic English proficiency is required.

# Moderators

Moderators are allowed to take single-season breaks while maintaining their status as moderators.

New (Section X, League Moderation):
> League Moderators are eligible for 1-season breaks, during which they retain voting privileges and access to league mod channels to stay up-to-date with information. If more moderators want to take breaks that the moderator team can afford, priority will be given to moderators that have least recently taken breaks.

Moderators are required to moderate 5 or more divisions, and when anyone would have to moderate 10 or more, new moderators will be recruited. The new moderators application, selection, and training processes are all longer.

Old (Section X, League Moderation):
> When new moderators are needed, there will be an open call posted to the Discord server the Dominion Strategy forum. Players will have at least 48 hours to submit their applications to be moderators. Once the application deadline transpires, the current moderators will have at least 48 hours to discuss the candidates before voting to choose new moderators from the applicants.

New:
> Each active moderator shall moderate at least 5 divisions per season. If the following season is anticipated to have more than 10 divisions per moderator, then the League shall recruit additional moderators. New moderator applications will open week 2 of each season, allow review by the existing moderator team during week 3, and onboarding/shadowing of new moderators beginning week 4.

# Superpromotions

Now anyone can superpromote, but not into a tier above E.

Old (Section III, Standings)
> Additionally, players who are placed as New Players in the current season and promoted from their tier can request to be re-placed in the upcoming season as a new player, using the same stricter cutoffs used for guaranteed new player tier placements. This allows players to promote across multiple tiers, known as “superpromotions”, if a player can improve their rating significantly across a season.

New
> Additionally, players may be re-placed using the rules for placing new players. This allows returning players to promote across multiple tiers, known as superpromotions, if a player can improve their rating significantly across a season. Players who would be superpromoted into tiers A, B, C, or D are instead placed into tier E.