---
title: 2020-11-27 Changelog
date: 2020-11-27
author: crlundy
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
## Ties

Clarify that the head-to-head tiebreaker is applied iteratively. Remove the "2nd tiebreaker" that compared the sum of wins against opponents.

Old (Section III. Standings):
> In the case of a tie within a division, the player with the higher total number of points from the matches between the tied players wins. If there is still a tie:
> * If the tie is between two players and affects promotions, demotions, or entry into the Championship Match, they play a 2-game match with each player starting one of the games. If the players are tied after those 2 games, they play one final game with a random player starting. If there is still a tie, the player that went second in the last game wins. A player who does not wish to play this match may concede. If one player fails to respond promptly or is unable to play, that player concedes by default. If neither player responds promptly or both respond but cannot arrange the match in the required time, the moderators will randomly break the tie.
> * If the tie is between two players and does not affect promotions, demotions, or entry into the Championship Match, the player with the higher sum of the number of points received in each match multiplied by the total score of the opponent from that match wins.
> * If the tie is between three or more players, the moderators will randomly break the tie.

New:
> If there is a tie within a division, apply these steps:
> 1. Head-to-head
> * Compare the total wins earned by each player from the matches involving only the tied players.
> * If one player has more wins than each other player, they win the tie.
> * If all players have the same number of wins, move to step 2.
> * Otherwise, repeat this step 1 with just the players who tied for most wins.
> 2. Promotion/demotion implications
> * If the tie affects promotions, demotions, or entry into the Championship Match, move to step 3.
> * Otherwise, all players share the rank of the best tied place.
> 3. Tiebreaker match
> * If the tie is between 2 players, they play a 2-game match with each player starting one of the games. If the players are tied after those 2 games, they play one final game with a random player starting. If there is still a tie, the player that went second in the last game wins. A player who does not wish to play this match may concede. If one player fails to respond promptly or is unable to play, that player concedes by default. If neither player responds promptly or both respond but cannot arrange the match in the required time, the moderators will randomly break the tie.
> * If the tie is between three or more players, the moderators will randomly break the tie.

Allowing ties in places that don't affect promotion or demotion creates several new situations that need to be clarified.

Players tied for 1st place are both eligible for superpromotion.

Old (Section III. Standings):
> Additionally, players may be re-placed using the rules for placing new players.

New:
> Additionally, players who finish in first place, or tied for first place, may be re-placed using the rules for placing new players.

Free promotions and play-in priorities depend on whether the promotion is across a doubling in tier size. Previous references to 2nd and 5th place now includes ties for those places as well.

Old (Section IV. Joining and Leaving):
> 3. Players who finished in second place with a high score in the previous season are offered a free promotion up to the next higher tier.
> 4. Players who finished in fifth place with  a high score in the previous season are offered a free promotion to not demote to the next lower tier.
>
> When multiple players are offered free promotions (as described above) to a tier with not enough open spots for all of them, that tier determines how players are chosen: For tiers A, B, and C, the moderators arrange play-in matches between those players. For all other tiers, the moderators choose the players at their discretion, taking into account time zones.

New:
> 3. If the open spot is in a tier roughly the same size as the tier below it, players who finished in (or tied for) fifth place in that tier with a high score in the previous season are offered a free promotion. Otherwise, players who finished in (or tied for) second place in the tier below with a high score in the previous season are offered a free promotion.
> 4. If the open spot is in a tier roughly the same size as the tier below it, players who finished in (or tied for) third place in the tier below with a high score in the previous season are offered a free promotion. Otherwise, players who finished in (or tied for) fifth place in that tier with a high score in the previous season are offered a free promotion.
>
> When multiple players would be offered free promotions (as described above) to a tier with not enough open spots for all of them, that tier determines how players are chosen: For tiers A, B, C, D, and E the moderators arrange play-in matches between those players. For all other tiers, the moderators choose the players at their discretion, taking into account time zones.