---
title: 2020-07-19 Changelog
date: 2020-07-19
author: crlundy
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
A few updates as a result of the Season 41 Setup Meeting.

## **Moderator selection**

Elaborated the timeframe for choosing new moderators.

Old (Section X, League Moderation):

> When new or additional moderators are needed, there will be an open call posted to the forum. New moderators are chosen by a vote of the current moderator team.

New:

> When new moderators are needed, there will be an open call posted to the Discord server and the Dominion Strategy forum. Players will have at least 48 hours to submit their applications to be moderators. Once the application deadline transpires, the current moderators will have at least 48 hours to discuss the candidates before voting to choose new moderators from the applicants.

## Cardlists in base-only games & spectators in tier E

Cardlists are no longer permitted in games that do not use expansions, like in Automatch; spectators are now required through tier E.

Old (Section II, Match Structure and Policies):

> * The disliked cards lists and banned cards lists should be respected, and the liked cards lists should not be.

> All these defaults may be changed between games by mutual agreement of the players except:
> * …
> * Players in tiers A, B, C, and D may not agree to disallow spectators.

New:

> * For games without expansions, Familiar cards should not be respected.
> * For games using expansions, the disliked cards lists and banned cards lists should be respected, and the liked cards lists should not be. For games without expansions, no cardlists should be respected.

> All these defaults may be changed between games by mutual agreement of the players except:
> * …
> * Games without expansions may not use Familiar cards or any cardlists.
> * Players in tiers A, B, C, D, and E may not agree to disallow spectators.

## Rulebooks and resources

The League will maintain those resources which players can consult at any time, including during their matches.

Old (Section II, Match Structure and Policies):

> * During a game, players may not consult outside resources, such as strategy articles, or otherwise attempt to gain a competitive advantage.

New:

> * During a game, players may not consult resources outside those maintained by the League, such as strategy articles, or otherwise attempt to gain a competitive advantage. The League hosts a list of Dominion rules and information that may be consulted privately or publicly at anytime.

## Demotions in 7-player divisions

The last 2 places demote in 7-player divisions, instead of 3 places.

Old (Section III, Standings)

> * Players who finish in fifth or sixth place in any tier demote unless they are in the bottom tier, in which case they will stay in that tier.

New:

> * Players who finish in fifth or sixth place in any 6-player tier, or sixth or seventh in any 7-player tier, demote unless they are in the bottom tier, in which case they will stay in that tier.

## Tier sizes and time zones

Each tier is no longer twice the size of the one before it. Time zones are now used to seed only tier E and below.

Old (Section I, League Structure)

> There is a single division in tier A; 2 divisions in tier B; 4 divisions in each of tiers C and D; 8 divisions in each of tiers E, F, and G; and 16 divisions in tier H. Divisions are determined by a seeding algorithm depending on previous performance in the League, taking into account time zone in the lower tiers (D and below) and Dominion Online level for new players.

New:

> There is a single division in tier A. Starting with tier B, two rules govern the size of a tier:
> * The maximum number of divisions in a tier is twice the maximum for the tier above it, except every third tier which has the same number as the one above it.
> * The lowest two tiers have approximately the same number of divisions.

> Divisions are determined by a seeding algorithm depending on previous performance in the League, taking into account time zone in tiers E and below, and Dominion Online level for new players.