---
title: 2020-12-13 Changelog
date: 2020-12-13
author: crlundy
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
## New player requirements

Players are now required to have played 10 or more rated games on Dominion Online to be eligible to join.

Old (Section IV. Joining and Leaving):
> To join the League, you must join the Dominion (Card Game) Discord server: https://discord.gg/vMmmMBu. Once you have joined the Discord Server you may sign up to join the League by filling out the Google form embedded in Sign up.

New:
> To join the Dominion League, new players must complete the following steps:
> 1. Have a <a href="http://dominion.games">Dominion Online</a> account with 10 or more rated 2-player games.
> 2. Join the <a href="https://discord.gg/vMmmMBu">Dominion (Card Game)</a> Discord server.
> 3. Fill out the <a href="http://dominionleague.org/sign-ups">sign-up form</a> for the upcoming season.


## Matches with dropped players

New simulation rules for dropped players allow for results that used to voided to now have an impact on the standings.

Old (IX. Dropping Players Mid-Season):
> * If the removed player played no games, they are simply removed and the remaining players play one fewer match. If possible, the moderators will replace them with a player from the waiting list.
> * If the removed player played fewer than 3 complete matches (each match being 6 games), the games they played are voided, and the remaining players play one fewer match.
> * If the removed player played 3 or more complete matches (each match being 6 games), the games they played are retained and the games they did not play are simulated by averaging the average winning percentage of the dropped player and the average losing percentage of their opponent in all games they did play.

New:
> * If the removed player played no games, they are removed and the remaining players play one fewer match. If possible, the moderators will replace them with a player from the waiting list.
> * If the removed player played any games, their match results are instead simulated by averaging the average winning percentage of the dropped player and the average losing percentage of their opponent in all games they did play, and then scaling these results by the percentage of their games they actually played. Additionally, if scaling these simulations to 0% and 100% would yield different promoters or demoters, an adjustment match is needed to better decide the standings between the affected players. In an adjustment match, the players play a 2-game match with each player starting one of the games. If the players are tied after those 2 games, they play one final game with a random player starting. If there is still a tie, the player that went second in the last game wins.


## Outside help

Improved wording.

Old (II. Match Structure and Policies):
> * During a game, players may not consult resources outside those maintained by the League, such as strategy articles, or otherwise attempt to gain a competitive advantage. The League hosts a list of Dominion rules and information that may be consulted privately or publicly at anytime.

New:
> * During games, players may not attempt to gain a competitive advantage by consulting resources other than those maintained by League. For example, getting advice from Dominion Strategy articles or from spectators is not allowed. The allowed resources maintained by the League are available on the <a href="https://dominionleague.org/resources">Dominion League Resources page</a> and may be consulted privately or publicly at anytime.


## Familiar cards

Clarified the Familiar cards are also not respected by default in games using expansions. Note it is still a rule that games without expansions cannot choose to use Familiar cards.

Old (II. Match Structure and Policies):
> * For games without expansions, Familiar cards should not be respected.

New:
> * Familiar cards should not be respected.