---
title: 2021-01-24 Changelog
date: 2021-01-24
author: crlundy
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Practice tier

The Practice tier was not renewed for Season 45.

Removed (Section I. League Structure):

> In Seasons 42 and 43, there shall also be a practice tier, separate from all other tiers, for players who have played less than 30 rated 2-player games online. Players in the practice tier will be similarly grouped and seeded.

Removed (Section II. Match Structure and Policies):

> For Seasons 42 and 43, games in the practice tier must be rated.
>
> For Seasons 42 and 43, in the Practice Tier, the players pick one expansion each, and Kingdoms are generated with only cards from those expansions and the base set.
>
> Players in the practice tier may not play games in-person or on any platform other than Dominion Online.
>
> Players in the practice tier may not agree for games to be unrated.

Removed (Section III. Standings):

> Players in the practice tier do not promote or demote automatically. Instead, these players are placed as new players in the next season.

Removed (Section IV. Joining and Leaving):

> For Seasons 42 and 43, players who join and have not played in one of the past 6 seasons and have played 29 or fewer rated 2-player games shall be placed into the practice tier.

### Undo rules

Clarified that "small numbers" refers to the quantity of steps allowed, not the quantity of undos allowed.

Old (Section II. Match Structure and Policies):

> The League’s default is to grant undos of small numbers of non-information-revealing steps

New:

> The League’s default is to at least grant all undos that are for small numbers of steps that did not reveal new game information.

### Tiebreakers

Better generalized the tiebreakers for ordering players beyond first place in multiway ties.

Old (Section III. Standings):

> If there is a tie within a division, apply these steps:
>
> 1. Head-to-head
>
> * Compare the total wins earned by each player from the matches involving only the tied players.
> * If one player has more wins than each other player, they win the tie.
> * If all players have the same number of wins, move to step 2.
> * Otherwise, repeat this step 1 with just the players who tied for most wins.

New:

> If there is a tie within a division, apply these steps with the group of tied players:
>
> 1. Head-to-head
>
> * Order the players by the total head-to-head wins each player earned from the matches involving only the group of tied players.
> * Break any ties in total head-to-head wins by the total head-to-head wins each player earned from the matches involving only this new group of tied players.

### Adjustment matches

Corrected the rules to match the system that was approved and implemented.

Old (Section IX. Dropping Players Mid-Season)

> The following rules are used for dropped players:
>
> * If the removed player played no games, they are removed and the remaining players play one fewer match. If possible, the moderators will replace them with a player from the waiting list
> * If the removed player played any games, their match results are instead simulated by averaging the average winning percentage of the dropped player and the average losing percentage of their opponent in all games they did play, and then scaling these results by the percentage of their games they actually played. Additionally, if scaling these simulations to 0% and 100% would yield different promoters or demoters, an adjustment match is needed to better decide the standings between the affected players. In an adjustment match, the players play a 2-game match with each player starting one of the games. If the players are tied after those 2 games, they play one final game with a random player starting. If there is still a tie, the player that went second in the last game wins.

New:

> The following rules are used for dropped players:
>
> * If the removed player played no games, they are removed and the remaining players play one fewer match. If possible, the moderators will replace them with a player from the waiting list.
> * If the removed player played any games, their remaining match results are instead simulated by averaging the average winning percentage of the dropped player and the average losing percentage of their opponent in all games they did play. Afterward, all the match results involving the dropped player are scaled by the percentage of their games they actually played.
>
> At the end of the season, to account for the approximations inherent in simulated results, adjustment matches may be required to better decide the standings between players straddling a promotion or demotion boundary. To determine if an adjustment match is needed, 4 scenarios are compared:
>
> * Scale all the dropped player's match results by the percentage of the games the first player actually played against all dropped players.
> * Round all unscaled results to the nearest 0.5, then scale all the dropped player's match results by the percentage of the games the first player actually played against all dropped players.
> * Scale all the dropped player's match results by the percentage of the games the second player actually played against all dropped players.
> * Round all unscaled results to the nearest 0.5, then scale all the dropped player's match results by the percentage of the games the second player actually played against all dropped players.
>
> If the 4 scenarios do not all yield the same promoter or demoter, an adjustment match is needed. In an adjustment match, the players play a 2-game match with each player starting one of the games. If the players are tied after those 2 games, they play one final game with a random player starting. If there is still a tie, the player that went second in the last game wins. The winner is placed ahead of the loser in the final standings. A player who does not wish to play this match may concede. If one player fails to respond promptly or is unable to play, that player concedes by default. If neither player responds promptly or both respond but cannot arrange the match in the required time, the moderators will randomly decide the standings.