---
title: 2021-10-11 Changelog
date: 2021-10-11
author: crlundy
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
## Connection issues and bugs
If a player has connection issues or encounters a game-freezing bug, they should resume the game later if they can, and play a new game instead if they can't.

New (Section II. Match Structure and Policies)
> If a player has connection issues or otherwise cannot continue a game, they should reload the same game another time. If the game can’t be reloaded (e.g. due to an internal error or impassable bug), the players should abandon the old game (it does not count toward the match score) and play a new game in its place.


## Stalemates
Players can mutually agree to abandon a game they judge to be a stalemate.

New (Section II. Match Structure and Policies)
> If players mutually agree their current game is a stalemate, they may abandon the  old game (it does not count toward the match score) and play a new game in its place. If the players don’t agree about a stalemate, then they must play on.


## Drops and the waiting list
If a player was dropped from a season, they cannot rejoin the waiting list for the same season.

Old (Section IV. Joining and Leaving)
> During a season, the moderators may, at their discretion, fill new open spots from a waiting list.

New
> During a season, the moderators may, at their discretion, fill new open spots from a waiting list, except that they may not fill open spots with players who were already dropped from that season.

New (Section IX. Dropping Players Mid-Season)
> Once dropped from a season, players may not rejoin that season.


## Bans
Moderators may reduce bans at their discretion.

Old (Section IX. Dropping Players Mid-Season)
> If a player drops out within the first week of the season or is in good standing with the League (i.e. has played in prior seasons without drops or late finishes), the ban period and demotion penalty may be reduced or eliminated at the moderators’ discretion.

New
> Any ban period and/or demotion penalty may be reduced or waived at the moderators' discretion.


## Unresponsive players
Players who are dropped for unresponsiveness may not rejoin the League until they respond to a moderator about why they "ghosted".

Old (Section IX. Dropping Players Mid-Season)
> Unfortunately, some must drop out, or become inactive and have to be removed by the moderators.
>
> ...
>
> **Players who drop mid-season will be banned from participation in the next 2 League seasons.**

New
> Unfortunately, some players must drop out or are removed by the moderators for being inactive or unresponsive. **By default, players who drop mid-season will be banned from participating in the next 2 League seasons. In addition, players who are dropped for being unresponsive must explain their inactivity to a moderator before they may sign up for the League again.**