---
title: 2021-12-03 Changelog
date: 2021-12-03
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Tiers ([2.3](/rules#2.3))

> The divisions are grouped into tiers. The number of tiers depends on the number of divisions. ~~There is a single division in tier A. Starting with tier B, the following rules dictate the size of a tier:~~

> 2.3.1. *There is a single division in tier A. Starting with tier B,* the maximum number of divisions in a tier is twice the maximum of the tier above it, except every third tier which has the same maximum number as the one above it.

> 2.3.~~3~~*2*. The lowest ~~two tiers have approximately~~ *tier has* the same *maximum* number of divisions *as the one above it. This rule overrides [2.3.1](#2.3.1)*.

> *2.3.3. The combination of [2.3.1](#2.3.1) and [2.3.2](#2.3.2) results in the following maximum division counts based on the number of tiers:*
> * *6 tiers (A-F): 1-2-4-4-8-8*
> * *7 tiers (A-G): 1-2-4-4-8-16-16*
> * *8 tiers (A-H): 1-2-4-4-8-16-16-16*
> * *9 tiers (A-I): 1-2-4-4-8-16-16-32-32*
> * *10 tiers (A-J): 1-2-4-4-8-16-16-32-64-64*

> 2.3.~~2~~*4*. Tiers A through D always have the maximum number of divisions. The moderators at their discretion may choose to have fewer than the maximum number of divisions in tiers E and below.

> 2.3.~~4~~*5*. The moderators may make exceptions to these tier count rules to account for probable changes in the size of the League.

### New section: Communication ([3.2.1](/rules#3.2.1))

> All League communication should be through Discord or dominion.games. Do not use external apps like WhatsApp or Facebook for League communications.

### New section: New expansions ([4.6](/rules#4.6))

> Per [4.4.10](#4.4.10), the default card pool for kingdom generation each season is all cards. However, either player may opt to remove cards from new expansions that were released after the end of the previous season from kingdom generation.

### Changed: Extensions ([6.4](/rules#6.4))

> If you are unable to complete ~~your games~~ *a match* by the deadline in [6.3](#6.3), you must request an extension from your moderator by that deadline.

> 6.4.2. You must schedule an ~~incomplete~~ *uncompleted* match with your opponent before you can request an extension for it. Provide the date and time to your moderator when you request it.

> 6.4.3. If ~~matches are~~ *the match is* not completed during the extension period, or an extension was never requested, you and/or your opponent may be dropped at your moderator’s judgment per [7.1](#7.1).