---
title: 2021-05-21 Changelog
date: 2021-05-21
author: crlundy
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
## Dominion Online
All games must be played on Dominion Online, and not in paper, on Tabletop Simulator, or on other clients.

Old (Section II. Match Structure and Policies)
> The League also has the following general rules for games by default:
> * Games should be played on Dominion Online.

> All these defaults may be changed between games by mutual agreement of the players except:
> * ...

New
> The League also has the following general rules for games by default:
> * Games must be played on Dominion Online.

> All these defaults may be changed between games by mutual agreement of the players except:
> * Games must be played on Dominion Online.
> * ...


## Spectators
Spectators must be allowed in all tiers.

Old (Section II. Match Structure and Policies)
> All these defaults may be changed between games by mutual agreement of the players except:
> * Players in tiers A, B, C, D, and E may not agree to disallow spectators.

New
> All these defaults may be changed between games by mutual agreement of the players except:
> * Players may not agree to disallow spectators.


## Promotions and demotions
In a 7-player division, if any player drops before completing any games, the promotion and demotions change mid-season to match those for a 6-player division.

Old (Section III. Standings)
> * In any tier, players who finish in sixth or seventh place in a seven-player division, or fifth or sixth place in any other division, demote unless they are in the bottom tier, in which case they will stay in that tier.

New
> * In any tier, players who finish in sixth or seventh place in a seven-player division where no player dropped before playing any games, or fifth or sixth place in any other division, demote unless they are in the bottom tier, in which case they will stay in that tier.


## Taking breaks
Only seasons a player completes in full count as not being on a break.

Old (Section IV. Joining and Leaving)
> 1. Players returning to the League after playing in one of the past 6 seasons are placed into the tiers they would have most recently returned to, starting with the players that played most recently and with ties broken by seeding. For purposes of this priority, divisions may have up to 7 players each.
> 2. Players returning from before the past 6 seasons, or joining for the first time with 30 or more rated 2-player games, are placed into tiers based on their Dominion Online level. For particularly highly-rated players, divisions may have up to 7 players each.

New
> 1. Players returning to the League after completing one of the past 6 seasons are placed into the tiers they would have most recently returned to, starting with the players that played most recently and with ties broken by seeding. For purposes of this priority, divisions may have up to 7 players each.
> 2. Players returning to the League who did not complete one of the past 6 season, or are joining for the first time, are placed into tiers based on their Dominion Online level. For particularly highly-rated players, divisions may have up to 7 players each.


## New moderator applications
New moderators applications shall be opened at least every 3 seasons.

Old (Section X. League Moderation)
> If the following season is anticipated to have more than 10 divisions per moderator, then the League shall recruit additional moderators.

New
> If the following season is anticipated to have more than 10 divisions per moderator, or if the League did not recruit new moderators in either of the preceding two seasons, then the League shall recruit additional moderators.
