---
title: 2022-03-27 Changelog
date: 2022-03-27
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Username and profile picture ([3.3](/rules#3.3))

> Your username and profile picture may not contain any inappropriate content. *If your username or profile picture are inappropriate, a moderator will reach out to you to request you change them. You are required to comply with any such request in order to play in the Dominion League.*

### Added: Dominion Online Terms of Service ([3.5](/rules#3.5))

> In addition to following Dominion League conduct guidelines, you are expected to adhere to the Dominion Online [Terms of Service](https://dominion.games/terms-of-service.html).

### Changed: Table settings ([4.5](/rules#4.5))

> Games played on Dominion Online should use the default table settings provided by the client, with the following exceptions~~, found under "Advanced Options"~~:
>
> <a name="4.5.1"></a>4.5.1. “Players can see spectator chat” should be off.
>
> <a name="4.5.2"></a>4.5.2. The player order should be set per [4.4](#4.4).
>
> <a name="4.5.3"></a>4.5.3. For games without expansions, *or with a Card Pool Level of 1,* ~~"Respect disliked cards" and "Respect banned cards"~~ *the "Disliked" and "Banned" options for "Respected Cards"* should be off.

### Changed: Table settings reference ([4.6](/rules#4.6))

> The following settings~~, found under "Advanced Options",~~ are set by default when you create a new table on Dominion Online. Per [4.5](#4.5), you should use these settings, but you do not need to set them directly. They are listed here for your information and reference.
>
> <a name="4.6.1"></a>4.6.1. "Allow spectators" should be set to Yes.
>
> ~~<a name="4.6.2"></a>4.6.2. "Respect Familiar cards" should be off.~~
>
> <a name="4.6.2"></a>4.6.2. For games using expansions *and a Card Pool Level of 2 or higher*, ~~"Respect disliked cards" and "Respect banned cards"~~ *the "Disliked" and "Banned" options for "Respected Cards"* should be on. ~~"Respect liked cards"~~ The "Liked" option should be off.
>
> <a name="4.6.3"></a>4.6.3. "Extra ~~Menagerie~~ *Allies*" should be off.
>
> <a name="4.6.4"></a>4.6.4. "Rated game" should be off.
>
> <a name="4.6.5"></a>4.6.5. "Show VP counter" should be on.
>
> <a name="4.6.6"></a>4.6.6. "Card Pool Level" should be set to 10.
>
> <a name="4.6.7"></a>4.6.7. Under ~~"Select Kingdom Cards"~~ *"Kingdom Options"*, no particular cards, landscapes, landscape types, or expansions should be selected or excluded. *Colonies and Shelters should be set to random.* This will result in a randomly-generated kingdom using all cards that either player has access to, with zero to two landscapes and a maximum of one Way.

### Changed: Modifying table settings ([4.7](/rules#4.7))

> By mutual agreement, you and your opponent may change the table settings specified in [4.5](#4.5) and [4.6](#4.6) as follows:
>
> <a name="4.7.1"></a>4.7.1. For games using expansions *and a Card Pool Level of 2 or higher*, you may agree to turn on ~~"Respect liked cards"~~ *the "Liked" option for "Respected Cards"*.
>
> <a name="4.7.2"></a>4.7.2. You may agree to generate a full kingdom using a public 3rd-party kingdom generator, such as the !mix command in Discord. You may not agree to use private 3rd-party kingdom generators, such as phone apps.
>
> ~~<a name="4.7.3"></a>4.7.3. You may agree to turn on "Rated game".~~
>
> #### <a name="4.7.3"></a>4.7.3. ~~Select Kingdom Cards~~ *Kingdom Options*
> 
> Under "~~Select Kingdom Cards~~ *Kingdom Options*", you may agree to...
>
> <a name="4.7.3.1"></a>4.7.3.1. Use the ~~checkboxes on the left~~ *expansion toggles* to only allow cards from certain expansions.
>
> <a name="4.7.3.2"></a>4.7.3.2. Use the ~~expansion~~ *card* buttons at the top to require cards from certain expansions.
>
> <a name="4.7.3.3"></a>4.7.3.3. Require a maximum of either one card or one landscape.
>
> *<a name="4.7.3.4"></a>4.7.3.4. Change the Card Pool Level.*

### Changed: New ~~expansions~~ *cards* ([4.8](/rules#4.8))

> Per [4.6.7](#4.6.7), the default card pool for Kingdom generation each season includes all ~~expansions~~ *cards*. However, either player may opt to remove new expansions from Kingdom generation.
>
> <a name="4.8.1"></a>4.8.1. An expansion is considered new if it*s initial version* was released after the end of the previous Dominion League season.
>
> *<a name="4.8.2"></a>4.8.2. Previews of expansions are always considered new.*
>
> *<a name="4.8.3"></a>4.8.3. An expansion is *not* considered new when a new edition is released, even if that edition adds or removes cards.*
>
> *<a name="4.8.4"></a>4.8.4. Promotional cards are not considered new expansions.*
>
> *<a name="4.8.5"></a>4.8.5. Rules changes, wording changes, new card errata, etc., do not cause cards or expansions to be treated as new.*

### Changed: Deadlines ([6.3](/rules#6.3))

> In order to ensure that matches are completed in a timely fashion, players must meet a number of deadlines throughout the season. All deadlines are on Sundays at 23:59 UTC. *We encourage players to stay well ahead of these deadlines - they are not the expected pace.*
>
> <a name="6.3.1"></a>*6.3.1. At the end of the first week of the season, players who have not checked in to their division may be replaced by players from the waiting list.*
>
> <a name="6.3.2"></a>*6.3.2. At the end of the second week of the season, players should have checked in to their division, and/or scheduled and/or completed at least one match.*
>
> <a name="6.3.3"></a>6.3.3. At the end of the third week of the season, players should have no more than 4 matches remaining to be played or scheduled. This typically requires having ~~played~~ *completed* and/or scheduled 1 match.
>
> <a name="6.3.4"></a>6.3.4. At the end of the fourth week of the season, players should have no more than 3 matches remaining to be played or scheduled. This typically requires having ~~played~~ *completed* and/or scheduled 2 matches.
>
> <a name="6.3.5"></a>6.3.5. At the end of the fifth week of the season, players should have no more than 2 matches remaining to be played or scheduled. This typically requires having ~~played~~ *completed* and/or scheduled 3 matches.
>
> <a name="6.3.6"></a>6.3.6. At the end of the sixth and final week of the season, players should have completed all of their matches. This typically requires having ~~played~~ *completed* 5 matches.
>
> <a name="6.3.7"></a>6.3.7. By default, the moderators will drop and suspend (see [7](#7)) players who fail to meet these deadlines, though they may waive the drop and/or the suspension at their discretion due to extenuating circumstances.