---
title: 2022-07-24 Changelog
date: 2022-07-24
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Hiatus ([1.4](/rules#1.4))

> You retain your tier placement, space permitting (see [2.4](#2.4) and [2.5](#2.5)), during a _short_ break of up to ~~5~~ _2_ consecutive seasons. If you rejoin after a _longer_ break of ~~6~~ _3_ or more consecutive seasons, you will be placed as a new player.

### Changed: Tier Placement ([2.4.2](/rules#2.4.2))

> 2.4.2. Players returning to the League after completing ~~one of the past 6 seasons~~ _a short break (see [1.4](#1.4))_ are placed into the tier they would have most recently returned to, starting with the players that played most recently, and with ties broken by seeding ([2.6](#2.6)).

### Changed: Tier Placement ([2.4.3](/rules#2.4.3))

> 2.4.3. Players returning to the League ~~who did not complete one of the past 6 seasons~~ _a long break (see [1.4](#1.4))_, and players joining the League for the first time, are placed into tiers based on their Dominion Online level. Levels will be collected at a time specified on the [sign-up page](/sign-ups).

### Changed: Table settings reference ([4.6.3](/rules#4.6.3))

> 4.6.3. "~~Extra Allies~~*Extra 2nd Edition*" should be off.

### Removed: Suggested schedule (6.1)

> ~~The League recommends you play at least one match per week. In F tier and below, a suggested schedule is posted in your division’s Discord channel and gives you an opponent to play each week. Although many players find this helpful, there is no requirement to follow this suggested schedule.~~

### Changed: Deadlines ([6.2](/rules#6.2))

> In order to ensure that matches are completed in a timely fashion, players must meet a number of deadlines throughout the season. All deadlines are on Sundays at 23:59 UTC. We encourage players to stay well ahead of these deadlines - they are not the expected pace. *We also encourage players to add their scheduled matches to the [League calendar form](/calendar/form), as this makes it easier for both the moderators and our automated systems to track scheduling progress.*