---
title: 2022-08-24 Changelog
date: 2022-08-24
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Added: Hiatus ([1.4.1](/rules#1.4.1))

> For players taking a break starting during Season 53 or earlier, a short break is up to 5 consecutive seasons.

### Added: Suspending games ([4.11](/rules#4.11))

> If you or your opponent have connection issues, or otherwise cannot continue a game (e.g. due to connection issues or time constraints), you should suspend the game. Note the game ID and use the Load Old Game button to reload the same game another time.
> 
> 4.11.1. Prior to resuming a suspended game, you may not load the game by ID, practice the kingdom, discuss it with other players, or otherwise study the game.

### Changed: Abandoning games ([4.12](/rules#4.12))

> _You may only abandon a game in the situations listed below._ ~~In the rare event of a game which must be abandoned,~~ _If you do abandon a game,_ you should play a new game in its place. Abandoned games do not count toward match completion or match score.
>
> 4.12.1. ~~If you or your opponent have connection issues or otherwise cannot continue a game, you should reload the same game another time. If the game can’t be reloaded (e.g. due to an internal error or impassable bug),~~ _If a suspended game ([4.11](/rules#4.11)) can’t be reloaded (e.g. due to an internal error),_ you should abandon the game.
>
> _4.12.2. If you cannot continue a game due to an impassable bug, you should abandon the game._
>
> 4.12.3. If you and your opponent agree that your current game is a stalemate, you should abandon the game. If you and your opponent don’t agree about a stalemate, then you must play on.
>
> 4.12.4. You and your opponent may agree to abandon a game with a Base-only kingdom that was generated by mistake, i.e. because you and/or your opponent did not realize your Dominion Online subscription had expired. This must be done before the start of turn 2. In this case, you or your opponent should extend your subscription before starting a new game. You may not otherwise agree to abandon a game based on the contents of the kingdom.