---
title: 2023-07-?? Changelog
date: 2023-07-29
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Hiatus ([1.4](/rules#1.4))

Old:
> You retain your tier placement, space permitting (see [2.4](#2.4) and [2.5](#2.5)), during a short break of up to 2 consecutive seasons. If you rejoin after a longer break of 3 or more consecutive seasons, you will be placed as a new player.
>
> 1.4.1. For players taking a break starting during Season 53 or earlier, a short break is up to 5 consecutive seasons.

New:
> Depending on the number of seasons since you last participated in the League, you may retain your previous tier placement, or you may be placed as a new player. See Tier Placement ([2.4](#2.4)) and Flex Divisions ([2.5](#2.5)) for details.
>
> 1.4.1. A short break is a break of up to 2 consecutive seasons.
>
> 1.4.2. A medium break is a break of between 3 and 5 consecutive seasons.
>
> 1.4.3. A long break is a break of 6 or more consecutive seasons.

### Changed: Pacing ([2.1](/rules#2.1))

Old:
> Each season lasts 6 weeks, and most are followed by a 2-week break. Once per year there is a longer 6-week break for the Shuffle iT Championship tournament in September.

New:
> Each season lasts 6 weeks. Breaks between seasons alternate between 2 and 3 weeks. The September break is 4 weeks instead of 3 due to the Shuffle iT Championship tournament.

### Changed: Tier Placement ([2.4](/rules#2.4))

> 2.4.2. Players returning to the League after a short break ([1.4.1](#1.4.1)) are placed into the tier they would have most recently returned to, starting with the players ~~that~~ *who* played most recently, and with ties broken by seeding ([2.6](#2.6)). *If there is insufficient space in a tier to accommodate players returning from a short break, one or more flex divisions ([2.5](#2.5)) will be created.*
>
> *2.4.3. Players returning to the League after a medium break are placed into the tier they would have most recently returned to, or the tier they would be placed into as a new player ([2.4.4](#2.4.4)), whichever is higher, starting with the players who played most recently, and with ties broken by seeding ([2.6](#2.6)). If there is insufficient space in a tier to accommodate players returning from a medium break, they will be placed in the tier below.*
>
> 2.4.~~3~~*4*. Players returning to the League after a long~~er~~ break ([1.4.3](#1.4.3)), and players joining the League for the first time, are placed into tiers based on their Dominion Online level. Levels will be collected at a time specified on the [sign-up page](/sign-ups). *If there is insufficient space in a tier to accommodate players exceeding the strict level cutoff, one or more flex divisions ([2.5](#2.5)) will be created.*

### Changed: Flex Divisions ([2.5](/rules#2.5))

> Divisions usually have a maximum of 6 players. However, divisions may "flex" up to a size of 7 players in order to accommodate ~~returning~~ players *returning from a short break ([1.4](#1.4),* [2.4.2](#2.4.2)) or particularly highly-rated players ([2.4.4](#2.4.4)). Free promotions ([5.5](#5.5)) are only used to fill divisions up to the normal maximum of 6 players.