---
title: 2023-02-?? Changelog
date: 2023-02-03
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Starting player ([4.4.4](/rules#4.4.4))

> If the table host makes a mistake in setting starting player, and this mistake is caught during an ongoing game that has not reached turn 2, *and if one player cannot reach 3 starts using future games per [4.4.3](/rules#4.4.3),* either player may request that the game be abandoned ~~only if one player cannot reach 3 starts using future games per [4.4.3](/rules#4.4.3)~~. Otherwise, the game must be played out normally.

### Changed: Table settings ([4.5.3](/rules#4.5.3))

> For games without expansions, or with a Card Pool Level of 1, the "Disliked" and "Banned" options for "Respected Cards" should be off *(see [4.6.6](/rules#4.6.6) and [4.7.4](/rules#4.7.4) for more information about the Card Pool Level)*.

### Changed: Table settings reference ([4.6.6](/rules#4.6.6))

> "Card Pool Level" should be set to ~~10~~ *the highest possible value. This will be 10 if at least one player has a Complete subscription. Otherwise, it will be 5 if at least one player has a Core subscription. If neither player has a subscription, it will be 1*.

### Changed:  Modifying table settings ([4.7](/rules#4.7))

> By mutual agreement, you and your opponent may change the table settings specified in [4.5](/rules#4.5) and [4.6](/rules#4.6) as follows:
>﻿
> 4.7.~~3.~~1. *You may* use the expansion toggles to only allow cards from certain expansions.
>﻿
> 4.7.~~3.~~2. *You may* use the card buttons at the top to require cards from certain expansions.
>﻿
> 4.7.~~3.~~3. *You may* specify a maximum of either one card or one landscape. You cannot agree to use deprecated cards or landscapes.
>﻿
> 4.7.~~3.~~4. *You may* change the Card Pool Level.
>﻿
> 4.7.~~1~~*5*. For games using expansions and a Card Pool Level of 2 or higher, you may agree to turn on the "Liked" option for "Respected Cards".
>﻿﻿
> 4.7.~~2~~*6*. You may agree to generate a full kingdom using a public 3rd-party kingdom generator, such as the !mix command in Discord. You may not agree to use private 3rd-party kingdom generators, such as phone apps.
>﻿
> #### ~~4.7.3. Kingdom Options~~
>﻿
> ~~Under "Kingdom Options", you may agree to...~~

### Changed: Free Promotions ([5.5.5](/rules#5.5.5))

> Depending on the number of slots and eligible players in [5.5.4](/rules#5.5.4), ~~some~~ *eligible* players may receive a free promotion*,* ~~while others~~ play a play-in match*, or neither*. Players are ordered by their win percentage from the previous season for determining priority*, with ties broken randomly*.

### Added: Other tournaments ([5.8](/rules#5.8))

> Games played for other tournaments may not be counted as Dominion League games.

### Changed: Deadlines ([6.2](/rules#6.2))

> In order to ensure that matches are completed in a timely fashion, players must meet a number of deadlines throughout the season. All deadlines are on Sundays at 23:59 UTC. We encourage players to stay well ahead of these deadlines - they are not the expected pace. ~~We also encourage players to add their scheduled matches~~ *For the purpose of meeting these benchmarks, all scheduled matches must be added* to the [League calendar form](/calendar/form), as this makes it easier for both the moderators and our automated systems to track scheduling progress.