---
title: 2024-06-?? Changelog
date: 2024-05-31
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Tier placement ([2.4.3](/rules#2.4.3))

Old:
> 2.4.3. Players returning to the League after a medium break ([1.4.2](/rules#1.4.2)) are placed into the tier they would have most recently returned to, or the tier they would be placed into as a new player ([2.4.4](/rules#2.4.4)), whichever is higher, starting with the players who played most recently, and with ties broken by seeding ([2.6](/rules#2.6)). If there is insufficient space in a tier to accommodate players returning from a medium break, they will be placed in the tier below.

New:
> 2.4.3. Players returning to the League after a medium break ([1.4.2](/rules#1.4.2)) are placed into the tier they would have most recently returned to, or the tier they would be placed into as a new player ([2.4.4](/rules#2.4.4)), whichever is higher. Slots are filled starting with A tier and working downward. If there is insufficient space in a given tier to accommodate players returning from a medium break, they will be placed in the highest possible tier below that tier that can accommodate them without needing a flex division to do so, starting with the players who played most recently, and with ties broken by seeding ([2.6](/rules#2.6)).

### Changed: Outside help ([4.3](/rules#4.3))

Old:
> During games, you may not attempt to gain a competitive advantage by consulting resources other than those maintained by the League on the [Dominion League Resources page](/resources).
>
> <a name="4.3.1"></a>4.3.1. The Dominion League Resources page may be consulted privately or publicly at any time.
>
> <a name="4.3.2"></a>4.3.2. For example, getting advice from Dominion Strategy articles or from spectators is not allowed.

New:
> During games, you may not attempt to gain a competitive advantage by using tools or resources external to the Dominion Online client other than those maintained by the League on the [Dominion League Resources](/resources) page.
>
> 4.3.1. The Dominion League Resources page may be consulted privately or publicly at any time.
>
> 4.3.2. Examples of using disallowed external tools and resources include: consulting with friends, family, or spectators; reading wiki or strategy articles; seeking advice on Discord; taking physical or digital notes; and using a deck tracker.

### Added: Table settings ([4.5.4](/rules#4.5.4))

> 4.5.4. If your automatch card pool level is lower than 10, your table settings may have fewer than two landscape slots by default. If this happens, manually add landscape slots until you have two.

### Changed: Table settings reference ([4.6.7](/rules#4.6.7))

> 4.6.7. Under "Kingdom Options", no particular cards, landscapes, landscape types, or expansions should be selected or excluded. Colonies and Shelters should be set to random. This will result in a randomly-generated kingdom using all cards that either player has access to, with zero to two landscapes and a maximum of one Way. Note that Allies are not considered landscapes, so this can result in kingdoms with up to two landscapes plus an Ally if a Liaison is present. *Note that the two landscape slots may not be included by default if your automatch card pool level is set below 10 (see [4.5.4](/rules#4.5.4)).*

### Added: Modifying table settings ([4.7.1](/rules#4.7.1))

> 4.7.1. You may enable the option to increase the frequency of recent card releases (e.g. "Extra 2nd Edition" or "Extra Plunder").

### Changed: Promotions slots ([5.3.2](/rules#5.3.2))

Old:

> 5.3.2. If your tier has at least 1.5 times as many divisions as the tier directly above yours, you promote by finishing in first place. Additionally, if promoting two players from each division in your tier would cause the tier above it to exceed its maximum size (see [2.3.1](/rules#2.3.1) and [2.3.4](/rules#2.3.4)), you promote by finishing in first place. Otherwise, you promote by finishing in first or second place.

New:

> #### 5.3.2. Promotion slots
> 
> You promote by finishing in first or second place, except under the following circumstances, in which you only promote by finishing in first place:
> 
> 5.3.2.1. Your tier has at least 1.5 times as many divisions as the tier directly above yours
>
> 5.3.2.2. Promoting two players from each division in your tier would cause the tier above it to exceed its maximum size (see [2.3.1](/rules#2.3.1) and [2.3.4](/rules#2.3.4)). Note that divisions are considered to be filled at 6 players, i.e. not flexed ([2.5](/rules#2.5)), for the purpose of determining when a tier would exceed its maximum size.

### Changed: Recruiting new moderators ([8.5](/rules#8.5))

Old:

> ### 8.5. Recruiting new moderators
>
> The moderator team will open applications for new moderators under the following conditions:
>
> 8.5.1. The following season is expected to have more than 10 divisions per moderator.
>
> 8.5.2. The moderator team has not opened applications for new moderators in either of the preceding two seasons.
>
> ### 8.6. Evaluating new moderator applicants
>
> When the moderator team opens applications for new moderators per [8.5](#8.5), they will follow this process:
>
> 8.6.1. New moderator applications will open during week 2 of the season.
>
> 8.6.2. The existing moderator team will review applications during week 3 of the season.
>
> 8.6.3. When applications close, the moderators may accept none, some, or all of the applicants.
>
> 8.6.4. Onboarding/shadowing of new moderators will begin during week 4 of the season.

New:

> ### 8.5. Recruiting new moderators
> 
> The moderator team follows this process to recruit new moderators:
>
> 8.5.1. New moderator applications are always open.
>
> 8.5.2. The existing moderator team reviews applications during week 2 of the season.
>
> 8.5.3. The moderators may accept none, some, or all of the applicants.
>
> 8.5.4. Onboarding/shadowing of new moderators begins during week 3 of the season.