---
title: 2021-03-?? Changelog
date: 2024-03-21
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Tiers ([2.3](/rules#2.3))

Old:
> Divisions ([2.2](/rules#2.2)) are grouped into tiers. The Dominion League has 11 tiers, identified by letters A through K.
>
> 2.3.1. Tiers A through E always have exactly 1, 2, 4, 4, and 8 divisions respectively.
>
> 2.3.2. Tiers F and below usually have at least 8 divisions. Moderator discretion will be used to balance the distribution of players and divisions within these tiers.
>
> 2.3.3. The moderators may make exceptions to these tier count rules to account for probable changes in the size of the League.

New:
> Divisions ([2.2](/rules#2.2)) are grouped into tiers. The Dominion League has 11 tiers, identified by letters A through K.
>
> 2.3.1. Tiers A through C always have exactly 1, 2, and 4 divisions respectively.
>
> 2.3.2. Tiers D and E have a minimum of 4 divisions each.
>
> 2.3.3. Tiers F through K have a minimum of 6 divisions each. If there are not enough players to meet this requirement, tiers will be eliminated as necessary.
>
> 2.3.4. A tier can have no more than twice as many divisions as the tier above it. If there are too many players to meet this requirement, tiers will be added as necessary.
>
> 2.3.5. Excluding the bottom tier, a tier must have at least as many divisions as the tier above it, minus one.

### Changed: Table settings reference ([4.6.3](/rules#4.6.3))

> 4.6.3. *Options for increasing the frequency of recent card releases (e.g.* "Extra 2nd Edition" *or "Extra Plunder")* should be off.

### Changed: Promotions and demotions ([5.3](/rules#5.3))

Old:
> 5.3.2. If the tier directly above yours has fewer divisions than your tier, you promote by finishing in first place.
>
> 5.3.3. If the tier directly above yours has roughly the same number of divisions as your tier, you promote by finishing in first or second place.

New:
> 5.3.2. If your tier has at least 1.5 times as many divisions as the tier directly above yours, you promote by finishing in first place. Additionally, if promoting two players from each division in your tier would cause the tier above it to exceed its maximum size (see [2.3.1](/rules#2.3.1) and [2.3.4](/rules#2.3.4)), you promote by finishing in first place. Otherwise, you promote by finishing in first or second place.