---
title: 2024-??-?? Changelog
date: 2024-01-31
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Tiers ([2.3](/rules#2.3))

Old: 

> The divisions are grouped into tiers. The number of tiers depends on the number of divisions.
>
> 2.3.1. There is a single division in tier A. Starting with tier B, the maximum number of divisions in a tier is twice the maximum of the tier above it, except every third tier which has the same maximum number as the one above it.
>
> 2.3.2. The lowest tier has the same maximum number of divisions as the one above it. This rule overrides 2.3.1.
>
> 2.3.3. The combination of 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 results in the following maximum division counts based on the number of tiers:
> 
> - 6 tiers (A-F): 1-2-4-4-8-8
> - 7 tiers (A-G): 1-2-4-4-8-16-16
> - 8 tiers (A-H): 1-2-4-4-8-16-16-16
> - 9 tiers (A-I): 1-2-4-4-8-16-16-32-32
> - 10 tiers (A-J): 1-2-4-4-8-16-16-32-64-64
>  
> <!-- --> 2.3.4. Tiers A through D always have the maximum number of divisions. The moderators at their discretion may choose to have fewer than the maximum number of divisions in tiers E and below.
>
> 2.3.5. The moderators may make exceptions to these tier count rules to account for probable changes in the size of the League.

New:

> Divisions ([2.2](/rules#2.2)) are grouped into tiers. The Dominion League has 11 tiers, identified by letters A through K.
> 
> 2.3.1. Tiers A through E always have exactly 1, 2, 4, 4, and 8 divisions respectively.
> 
> 2.3.2. Tiers F and below usually have at least 8 divisions. Moderator discretion will be used to balance the distribution of players and divisions within these tiers.
>
> 2.3.3. The moderators may make exceptions to these tier count rules to account for probable changes in the size of the League.

### Changed: Suspending games ([4.11](/rules#4.11))
> 
> If you or your opponent have connection issues, or otherwise cannot continue a game (e.g. due to time constraints), you should suspend the game. Note the game ID, then resign the game. Resigning in this situation will not be considered a loss, and is necessary to ensure the server considers the game completed, as an in-progress game cannot be loaded at a new table. *Whenever possible, resign the game before refreshing the website, as you may lose the ability to resign it after refreshing. If you get stuck on the login page, use the "Kick & Resign" button.* Use the Load Old Game button to reload the same game another time.

### Changed: Abandoning games ([4.12](/rules#4.12))

> In the rare event of a game which must be abandoned, you should play a new game in its place. Abandoned games do not count toward match completion or match score.
>
> 4.12.1. If you or your opponent have connection issues or otherwise cannot continue a game, you should *suspend the game (see [4.11](/rules#4.11))* and reload ~~the same game~~ *it* another time. If the game can't be reloaded (e.g. due to an internal error or impassable bug), you should abandon the game.

### Changed: Difficulty scheduling ([6.4](/rules#6.4))

> If you have any scheduling issues, ~~or if your opponent does not show up for a scheduled match, please~~ inform your moderator.
>
> *6.4.1. If you are going to be unavailable for a significant **(how long?)** chunk of time during the season, make a post in your division channel explaining the situation and tagging your division and your moderator. **(should this go in the FAQ?)** *
>
> *6.4.2. If you are going to be late to a scheduled match, or need to reschedule, inform your opponent as soon as possible.*
>
> *6.4.3. If your opponent is 15 minutes late to a scheduled match, fails to show up at all, or cancels at the last minute, inform your moderator.*
>
> *6.4.4. Players who are repeatedly in violation of [6.4.2](/rules#6.4.2) may be warned or suspended per [7.2](/rules#7.2).*

### Changed: Suspensions ([7.2](/rules#7.2))

> 7.2.3. Other types of misconduct (see [3.6](/rules#3.6) *and [6.4.4](/rules#6.4.4)*) will be subject to a warning or suspension per discretion of the moderator team.