---
title: 2024-06-08 Changelog
date: 2024-06-08
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Table settings ([4.5](/rules#4.5))

Old:
> Games played on Dominion Online should use the default table settings provided by the client, with the following exceptions:
>
> 4.5.1. "Players can see spectator chat" should be off.
>
> 4.5.2. The player order should be set per [4.4](/rules#4.4).
>
> 4.5.3. For games without expansions, or with a Card Pool Level of 1, the "Disliked" and "Banned" options for "Respected Cards" should be off (see ([4.6.6](/rules#4.6.6)) and ([4.7.5](/rules#4.7.5)) for more information about the Card Pool Level).
>
> 4.5.4. If your automatch card pool level is lower than 10, your table settings may have fewer than two landscape slots by default. If this happens, manually add landscape slots until you have two.

New:
> Games should use the default table settings provided by the [Dominion Online](https://dominion.games/) client, with the following exceptions:
>
> 4.5.1. "Players can see spectator chat" should be off.
>
> 4.5.2. The player order should be set per [4.4](/rules#4.4).
>
> 4.5.3. "Card Pool Level" should be set to 10, and there should be two landscape slots. (You will only need to change these settings if your automatch card pool settings are different.)
>
> 4.5.4. If neither player has a subscription, the "Disliked" and "Banned" options for "Respected Cards" should be off.

### Removed: Table settings reference ([4.6.6](/rules#4.6.6))

> 4.6.6. "Card Pool Level" should be set to the highest possible value. This will be 10 if at least one player has a Complete subscription. Otherwise, it will be 5 if at least one player has a Core subscription. If neither player has a subscription, it will be 1.

### Changed: Modifying table settings ([4.7.2](/rules#4.7.2))

> 4.7.2. You may use the expansion toggles to exclude certain expansions. *If you only play with a single expansion, you must turn off all options for "Respected Cards" ("Banned", "Disliked", and "Liked").*

### Changed: Modifying table settings ([4.7.5](/rules#4.7.5))

> 4.7.5. You may change the Card Pool Level. *If you set the Card Pool Level to 1, you must turn off all options for "Respected Cards" ("Banned", "Disliked", and "Liked").*