---
title: 2025-10-?? Changelog
date: 2025-10-09
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Tiers ([2.3](/rules#2.3))

> 2.3.3. Tiers F through ~~K~~ *J* have a minimum of 6 divisions each. If there are not enough players to meet this requirement, tiers will be eliminated as necessary.

### Added: Tiers ([2.3.4](/rules#2.3.4))

> 2.3.4. If Tier K falls below 6 divisions for 2 consecutive seasons, it will be eliminated after the second such season.

### Added: Play speed ([3.5](/rules#3.5))

> Games in the Dominion League do not use an in-game timer. You are allowed to play at a relaxed pace, but out of consideration for your opponents, the League requires that you maintain a minimum play speed. This means that you should not regularly exceed your opponent's decision time over the course of a match by an excessive amount. An excessive amount of excess time is considered to be approximately 45 minutes for a six-game match. We evaluate this using a metric that accounts for differences in number of decisions made by each player and the possibility that your opponent is playing unusually quickly.
> 
> 3.5.1. Play speed within a match is evaluated via Adjusted Excess Time. Your Adjusted Excess Time is calculated by averaging the number of decisions that you and your opponent made during a match, multiplying the result by your average time per decision, doing the same for your opponent, then subtracting your opponent's value from your value. For example, if you took 5 seconds per decision over 450 decisions, and your opponent took 4 seconds per decision over 550 decisions, the average decision count would be `(450+550)/2 = 500`, your Adjusted Time would be `5s*500 = 2500s`, your opponent's Adjusted Time would be `4s*500 = 2000s`, and your Adjusted Excess Time would be `2500s-2000s = 500s = 8m20s`, i.e. 8 minutes and 20 seconds.
>
> 3.5.2. When calculating Adjusted Excess Time, if your opponent's average time per decision is less than 3.5 seconds, a value of 3.5 seconds (approximately the League median) is used instead. This is meant to avoid flagging players as especially slow merely due to having especially fast opponents.
>
> 3.5.3. You are expected to keep your Adjusted Excess Time under 45 minutes.
>
> 3.5.4. You receive a play speed warning for any match in which your Adjusted Excess Time crosses the threshold established in [3.5.3](/rules#3.5.3).
>
> 3.5.5. If you receive multiple play speed warnings in 2 consecutive seasons, or in 3 out of 5 consecutive seasons, you receive a suspension (see [7.2.3](/rules#7.2.3)).

### Changed: Suspensions ([7.2.1](/rules#7.2.1))

> Suspension durations refer to *future* seasons ~~after the current/active season~~. A 1-season suspension assigned during season 40 would mean that the suspended player could play again during season 42. *Likewise, a 1-season suspension assigned after season 40 but before season 41 would also mean that the suspended player could play again during season 42.*

### Added: Suspensions ([7.2.3](/rules#7.2.3))

> The default suspension for excessive play speed warnings (see [3.5](/rules#3.5)) is 1 season.