---
title: 2025-02-?? Changelog
date: 2025-02-04
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Hiatus ([1.4](/rules#1.4))

Old:
> Depending on the number of seasons since you last participated in the League, you may retain your previous tier placement, or you may be placed as a new player. See Tier Placement ([2.4](/rules#2.4)) and Flex Divisions ([2.5](/rules#2.5)) for details.
>
> 1.4.1. A short break is a break of up to 2 consecutive seasons.
>
> 1.4.2. A medium break is a break of between 3 and 5 consecutive seasons.
>
> 1.4.3. A long break is a break of 6 or more consecutive seasons.

New:
> The number of seasons since you last participated in the League determines your eligibility to retain your previous tier placement. See Tier Placement ([2.4](/rules#2.4)) and Flex Divisions ([2.5](/rules#2.5)) for details.
>
> 1.4.1. A short break is a break of up to 2 consecutive seasons.
>
> 1.4.2. A long break is a break of 3 or more consecutive seasons.

### Changed: Tier Placement ([2.4](/rules#2.4))

Old:
> 2.4.3. Players returning to the League after a medium break ([1.4.2](/rules#1.4.2)) are placed into the tier they would have most recently returned to, or the tier they would be placed into as a new player ([2.4.4](/rules#2.4.4)), whichever is higher. Slots are filled starting with A tier and working downward. If there is insufficient space in a given tier to accommodate players returning from a medium break, they will be placed in the highest possible tier below that tier that can accommodate them without needing a flex division to do so, starting with the players who played most recently, and with ties broken by seeding ([2.6](/rules#2.6)).
> 
> 2.4.4. Players returning to the League after a long break ([1.4.3](/rules#1.4.3)), and players joining the League for the first time, are placed into tiers based on their Dominion Online level. Levels will be collected at a time specified on the [sign-up page](/sign-ups). If there is insufficient space in a tier to accommodate players exceeding the strict level cutoff, one or more flex divisions ([2.5](/rules#2.5)) will be created.
>
> 2.4.5. If there are still open spots in a tier, players in the tier below may receive free promotions to fill them. See [5.5](/rules#5.5) for details.

New:
> 2.4.3. Players returning to the League after a long break ([1.4.2](/rules#1.4.2)) are placed into the tier they would have most recently returned to, modified by a break adjustment, or into a tier based on their Dominion Online level, whichever placement would be higher.
>
> 2.4.4.1. Players returning from a long break will have their Dominion Online level assessed in the same manner as if they were joining the League for the first time (see [2.4.5](/rules#2.4.5)).
> 
> 2.4.4.2. A break adjustment consists of a reduction by 1 tier for every 6 full seasons off, up to a maximum reduction of 3 tiers. For example, a player who would have returned to C would have a break-adjusted tier of C after a break lasting up to 5 seasons, D after a break lasting 6-11 seasons, E after a break lasting 12-17 seasons, and F after a break lasting 18+ seasons. A player's break-adjusted tier cannot fall below the League's lowest tier (see [2.3](/rules#2.3)).
>
> 2.4.4.3. When placing players based on break-adjusted tiers, slots are filled starting with A tier and working downward. If there is insufficient space in a given tier to accommodate such players, they will be placed in the highest possible tier below that tier that can accommodate them without needing a flex division to do so, starting with the players who played most recently, and with ties broken by seeding ([2.6](/rules#2.6)).
>
> 2.4.5. Players joining the League for the first time are placed into tiers based on their Dominion Online level. Levels will be collected at a time specified on the [sign-up page](/sign-ups). If there is insufficient space in a tier to accommodate players exceeding the strict level cutoff, one or more flex divisions ([2.5](/rules#2.5)) will be created.
>
> 2.4.6. If there are still open spots in a tier, players in the tier below may receive free promotions to fill them. See [5.5](/rules#5.5) for details.


### Added: Tier placement ([2.4.6](/rules#2.4.6))

> 2.4.6. Occasionally, the League's tier structure will need to be adjusted to accommodate changes in the number of players or the distribution of skill. This may involving adding or removing tiers, or changing the relative size of existing tiers. When this occurs, the League will publish a transition scheme detailing the movement of players between the pre- and post-transition seasons. Players who take breaks across these transitions will have their tier placements adjusted according to any such schemes upon their return.

### Changed: Extra/non-standard matches ([4.16.1](/rules#4.16.1))

> 4.16.1. Adjustment and tiebreaker matches are 2-game matches with each player starting one of the games. You and your opponent may play a 4- or 6-game match instead by mutual agreement *if you are not participating in a three (or more) player, round-robin tiebreaker*.

### Changed: Promotion or demotion implications ([5.2.2.2](/rules#5.2.2.2))

> 5.2.2.2. If an unbroken three (or more) way tie affects promotions, demotions, or entry into the Championship Match, *the moderators will offer each player involved the opportunity to play in a round-robin tiebreaker, using the format specified in [4.16](/rules#4.16). If any of the players involved declines to participate*, the moderators will randomly break the tie.