---
title: 2026-06-02 Changelog
date: 2026-06-04
author: Sharur
layout: simple_post
categories: changelog
---
### Changed: Play speed ([3.5](/rules#3.5))

> Games in the Dominion League do not ~~use an~~ *enforce play speed using the* in-game timer *(see [Timers](/rules#4.10) for more information)*.

### Changed: Starting player ([4.4](/rules#4.4))

> Each player should go first 3 times in a 6 game match. *This is automatically handled by the "League Match" table setting (see [Table settings](/rules#4.5)). In the rare event that you can't use the League Match settings, i*~~I~~t is each player's responsibility to ensure that they get 3 starts in a match.
>
> 4.4.1. The first game of a match should have a random starting player. This is the default setting when creating a new table on [Dominion Online](https://dominion.games/)*, and when using the League Match table setting*.
>
> 4.4.2. Starting player should alternate for the remaining games. *This is automatically handled by the League Match table setting.*
>
> 4.4.3. If *you are unable to use the League Match table setting, and* the table host makes a mistake in setting starting player, future games should be used to correct the discrepancy as quickly as possible. For example, if player A starts games 1 and 2, player B should start games 3 and 4. This should be done even if it is not possible for one of the players to receive 3 starts. For example, if player A starts games 1 through 4, player B should start games 5 and 6.
>
> 4.4.4. If *you are unable to use the League Match table setting, and* the table host makes a mistake in setting starting player which is caught during an ongoing game that has not reached turn 2, and if one player cannot reach 3 starts using future games per [4.4.3](#4.4.3), either player may request that the game be abandoned. Otherwise, the game must be played out normally.
>
> 4.4.5. Games cannot be voided after the fact due to a mismatch in starting player counts.

### Changed: Table settings ([4.5](/rules#4.5))

> Games should use the default *League Match* table settings provided by the [Dominion Online](https://dominion.games/) client*. Click the "League Match" button to enable these settings. In the rare event that you can't use the League Match settings, you should use the general default table settings*, with the following exceptions:
>
> ...
>
> *4.5.3. "Timer" should be set to "League".*

### Changed: Table settings reference ([4.6](/rules#4.6))
>
> The following settings are set by default when you create a new table on [Dominion Online](https://dominion.games/) *and enable the "League Match" setting*. Per [4.5](#4.5), you should use these settings.~~, but y~~*Y*ou do not need to set them directly*, unless you are unable to use the "League Match" setting, in which case you will need to set [4.6.6](/rules#4.6.6) and [4.6.7](/rules#4.6.7) manually*. They are listed here for your information and reference.
>
> 4.6.1. "Allow spectators" should be set to Yes.
>
> 4.6.2. For games using expansions and a Card Pool Level of 2 or higher, the "Disliked" and "Banned" options for "Respected Cards" should be on. The "Liked" option should be off.
>
> 4.6.3. Options for increasing the frequency of recent card releases (e.g. "Extra 2nd Edition" or "Extra Plunder") should be off.
>
> ~~4.6.4. "Rated game" should be off.~~
>
> 4.6.~~5~~*4*. "Show VP counter" should be on.
>
> 4.6.~~6~~*5*. Under "Kingdom Options", no particular cards, landscapes, landscape types, or expansions should be selected or excluded. Colonies and Shelters should be set to random. This will result in a randomly-generated kingdom using all cards that either player has access to, with zero to two landscapes and a maximum of one Way. Note that Allies and Prophecies are not considered landscapes, so this can result in kingdoms with up to two landscapes, plus an Ally if a Liaison is present, and/or a Prophecy if an Omen is present. Note that the two landscape slots might not be included by default if your automatch card pool level is set below 10 (see [4.5.4](#4.5.4)).
>
> *4.6.6. "Players can see spectator chat" should be off. This is automatically turned off by the "League Match" table setting once the match starts.*
>
> *4.6.7. "Timer" should be set to "League". This is automatically handled by the "League Match" table setting.*

### Changed: Modifying table settings ([4.7](/rules#4.7))
>
> By mutual agreement, you and your opponent may change the table settings specified in [4.5](#4.5) and [4.6](#4.6) as follows:
>
> 4.7.1. You may enable the option to increase the frequency of recent card releases (e.g. "Extra 2nd Edition" or "Extra Plunder").
>
> ~~4.7.2. You may use the expansion toggles to exclude certain expansions. If you only play with a single expansion, you must turn off all options for "Respected Cards" ("Banned", "Disliked", and "Liked").~~
>
> ~~4.7.3. You may use the card buttons at the top to require cards from certain expansions.~~
>
> ~~4.7.4. You may specify a maximum of either one card or one landscape. You cannot agree to use deprecated cards or landscapes.~~
>
> 4.7.~~5~~*2*. You may ~~change~~ *lower* the Card Pool Level. If you set the Card Pool Level to 1, *and you are not using the "League Match" table setting,* you must turn off all options for "Respected Cards" ("Banned", "Disliked", and "Liked").
>
> 4.7.~~6~~*3*. For games using expansions and a Card Pool Level of 2 or higher, you may agree to turn on the "Liked" option for "Respected Cards".
>
> ~~4.7.7. You may agree to generate a full kingdom using a public 3rd-party kingdom generator, such as the !mix command in Discord. You may not agree to use private 3rd-party kingdom generators, such as phone apps.~~

### Changed: New cards ([4.8](/rules#4.8))
>
> Per [4.6.5](#4.6.5), the default card pool for Kingdom generation each season includes all cards. However, either player may opt to remove new ~~expansions~~ *cards* from Kingdom generation.
>
> 4.8.1. ~~An expansion is~~ *Cards are* considered new if ~~its~~ *their* initial version was released after the end of the previous Dominion League season. For example, Allies, which was released in the final week of season 50, would be considered new for season 50, but not for season 51.
>
> 4.8.2. Previews ~~of expansions~~ are always considered new.
>
> 4.8.3. An expansion is not considered new when a new edition is released~~, even if that edition adds or removes cards~~. *Only the cards newly added to that expansion are considered new. Similarly, new promotional cards are considered new, but do not affect the status of previously released promotional cards.*
>
> ~~4.8.4. Promotional cards are not considered new expansions.~~
>
> 4.8.~~5~~*4*. Rules changes, wording changes, new card errata, etc., do not cause cards or expansions to be treated as new.

### Changed: Timers ([4.10](/rules#4.10))
> Games in the Dominion League do not use a timer *to enforce play speed. Currently, we are collecting data that will be used to inform changes to the League's timer policy*.
>
> 4.10.1. Games should be played using the "League" timer setting. This is included automatically when using the "League Match" table setting.
>
> 4.10.~~1~~*2*. The "Make (opponent) Resign?" prompt in [Dominion Online](https://dominion.games/) should only be used to address connection issues and other technical difficulties (see [4.11](#4.11)). It should not be used to enforce speed of play on your opponent.
>
> ~~4.10.2. If you feel that an opponent is playing especially slowly, consider politely requesting that they play more quickly, or reaching out to a moderator.~~

### Added: Extra/non-standard matches ([4.16.10](/rules#4.16.10))
>
> 4.16.10. The "League Match" table setting does not support tiebreaker or adjustment matches. Some settings for these matches will need to be set manually per [4.5](/rules#4.5).

### Removed: Meeting minutes (8.4)
>
> ~~Whenever the moderators gather for an official meeting at which rules may change, the agenda of the meeting and the outcome of any votes, including the number dissenting, will be made public within a week of the meeting. This will happen at least once per season.~~