---
title: Season 40 - End of Season Deadlines
subtitle:
author: alibby1152
layout: simple_post
date: 2020-06-22
categories: newsletters #TODO: WHEN SIGNUPS CLOSE FOR THIS POST, REPLACE WITH CATEGORY archive
description:

---
Season 40 officially ends on Sunday, July 5. To account for the westernmost timezones, **the deadline for reporting matches is Monday, July 6, at 15:00 UTC.**

If you need extra time to finish, **you must contact your group moderator** to request an extension of up to one week. **All late finish matches must be reported by Monday, July 13, at 15:00 UTC.**

If you fail to request an extension or complete the match by the late deadline, the responsible player(s) will be considered to have dropped mid-season. This means that they are banned for the next two seasons, and automatically demoted when they return. If they played at least 18 games (three matches), those are kept for the other players' standings and their remaining matches are "simulated" (see [the full rules](http://forum.dominionstrategy.com/index.php?topic=15509.0) for how), but if they did not complete that many, their results are removed.

In addition to finishing your matches, all players must fill out the returning form to tell us whether they will be back for next season. This form was sent to you in a private message; you can also find it in the pinned post in your Discord division channel. **The deadline for filling out the returning form is Monday, July 13, at 15:00 UTC** (the Season 41 signup deadline). Any players who have not told us whether they will be back by then will be assumed to be not returning.
